docs: add helm doc (#32986)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/admin/install/kubernetes/helm.md

# Sourcegraph Helm Chart

## Requirements

* [Helm 3 CLI](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
* Kubernetes 1.19 or greater

## Quickstart

To use the Helm chart, add Sourcegraph helm repository:
 
```sh
helm repo add sourcegraph https://sourcegraph.github.io/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/
```

Install the Sourcegraph chart using default values:

```sh

> helm install --version 0.7.0 sourcegraph sourcegraph/sourcegraph

Author: Should we avoid referencing a specific chart version? I will forget keeping them in sync with the chart repo

Reviewer: If we integrate this page with the release tooling, we'll know that the version gets updated with every Sourcegraph release - which seems like a good starting place for now.

Provide the override file to helm:

```sh
# Installation
helm install --values ./override.yaml --version 0.7.0 sourcegraph sourcegraph/sourcegraph

# Upgrade
helm upgrade --values ./override.yaml --version 0.7.0 sourcegraph sourcegraph/sourcegraph
```

### Configure Sourcegraph on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)

You should include these suggested values in your override file, learn more from [override.yaml](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/tree/main/charts/sourcegraph/examples/gcp/override.yaml).

> Looking to enable TLS with Google-managed certificates? [learn more](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/managed-certs)

In addition to the provided values, you need to deploy the [BackendConfig] CRD to properly expose Sourcegraph publically. The [BackendConfig] CR should be deployed in the same namespace where Sourcegraph chart is installed.

```yaml
apiVersion: cloud.google.com/v1
kind: BackendConfig
metadata:
  name: sourcegraph-frontend
spec:
  healthCheck:
    checkIntervalSec: 5
    timeoutSec: 5
    requestPath: /ready
    port: 6060 # we use a custom port to perform healthcheck
```

> ### Configure Sourcegraph on Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)

Author: Why EKS/AKS don't have similar amount of detail as GKE example?

We don't use AWS/Azure and I haven't tested SG on them, so I should things purely information only

# Sourcegraph Helm Chart

## Requirements

* [Helm 3 CLI](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
* Kubernetes 1.19 or greater

## Quickstart

To use the Helm chart, add Sourcegraph helm repository:
 
```sh
helm repo add sourcegraph https://sourcegraph.github.io/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/
```

Install the Sourcegraph chart using default values:

```sh
helm install --version 0.7.0 sourcegraph sourcegraph/sourcegraph
```

## Configuration 

The Sourcegraph chart is highly customizable to support a wide range of environments. Please review the default values from [values.yaml](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/blob/main/charts/sourcegraph/values.yaml) and all [supported options](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/tree/main/charts/sourcegraph#configuration-options). Customizations can be applied using an override file. Using an override file allows customizations to persist through upgrades without needing to manage merge conflicts.

> To customize configuration settings with an override file, create an empty yaml file (e.g. `override.yaml`) and configure overrides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customize configuration settings with an override file, create an empty yaml file (e.g. `override.yaml`) and add your own settings.
```

I dunno, this isn't really any better. It just feels like this sentence is saying a lot of the same words.

Author: @caugustus-sourcegraph how do you like

```suggestion
To customize configuration settings with an override file, create an empty yaml file (e.g. `override.yaml`) to get started.
```

> WARNING: __DO NOT__ copy the [default values file](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/blob/main/charts/sourcegraph/values.yaml) as a boilerplate for your override file. You risk having outdated values during upgrades.

Example overrides can be found in the [examples](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/tree/main/charts/sourcegraph/examples) folder. Please take a look at our examples before providing your own configuration and consider using them as boilerplates.

Provide the override file to helm:

```sh

> # Installation

Reviewer: `helm upgrade --install` can be used as the command for both upgrade and installation

Author: I've been debating should we use `helm upgrade --install` over `helm install` everywhere in the docs.

`helm upgrade --install` enforces better consistency for ourself

`helm install` feels more like "installation" to end-users in case they don't know that the `--install` flag achieves the same

Reviewer: 😄  I had similar concerns, so probably we're both overthinking it!

I like the idea of using `helm upgrade --install` everywhere except maybe the quick start command?

Author: this sounds good to me

helm install --values ./override.yaml --version 0.7.0 sourcegraph sourcegraph/sourcegraph

# Upgrade
helm upgrade --values ./override.yaml --version 0.7.0 sourcegraph sourcegraph/sourcegraph
```

### Using external PostgreSQL databases

__TODO__

### Using external Redis instances

__TODO__

### Using external Object Storage

__TODO__

### Cloud providers guides

#### Configure Sourcegraph on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)

> You should include these suggested values in your override file, learn more from [override.yaml](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/tree/main/charts/sourcegraph/examples/gcp/override.yaml).

Reviewer: This feels dicey - it's saying directly "just run with these settings", but don't explain what they do or the consequences.

Author: I just rewrote the entire GKE guide. let me know your thought

https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/03-23-docs_add_helm_doc/doc/admin/install/kubernetes/helm.md#cloud-providers-guides

> Looking to enable TLS with Google-managed certificates? [learn more](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/managed-certs)

In addition to the provided values, you need to deploy the [BackendConfig] CRD to properly expose Sourcegraph publically. The [BackendConfig] CR should be deployed in the same namespace where Sourcegraph chart is installed.

> ```yaml

Reviewer: What should we be doing with examples like this, where the code lives in two places (here in the docs and then in the example repo)? They can easily get out of sync.

Reviewer: My perspective is that we should use these sections as a summary of what the examples do, and then link to the examples repo for actual code so it's only in one location. Maybe @jwayman has some ideas too?

Author: I like they exist at both places (I know they might get out of sync, so we need some automation in the future to mitigate this) and we also include a link to the file in the examples folder above the snippet

Why?
Users can easily just copy and paste the snippet directly, or they can choose to "curl" it somehow. Having them directly inside the docs just feels more complete to me.

see what I am doing right now https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/03-23-docs_add_helm_doc/doc/admin/install/kubernetes/helm.md#steps

- [What is Application Gateway Ingress Controller?](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/application-gateway/ingress-controller-overview)

```yaml
frontend:
  ingress:
    enabled: true
    annotations:
      kubernetes.io/ingress.class: azure/application-gateway
      # additional azure application gateway supported annotations
      # ...
    # replace with your actual domain
    host: sourcegraph.company.com
```

#### Configure Sourcegraph on other Cloud providers or on-prem

Read <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/> to configure the `storageClass.provisioner` and `storageClass.parameters` fields for your cloud provider or your on-prem environment.

```yaml
storageClass:
  create: true
  provisioner: <REPLACE_ME>
  volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
  reclaimPolicy: Retain
  parameters:
    key1: value1
```

### Advanced configuration

The Helm chart is new and still under active development, and we may not cover all of your use cases. 

Please contact [support@sourcegraph.com](mailto:support@sourcegraph.com) or your Customer Engineer directly to discuss your specific need.

> For advanced users who are looking for a temporary workaround, we __recommend__ applying [Kustomize](https://kustomize.io) on the rendered manifests from our chart. Please __do not__ maintain your own fork of our chart, this may impact our ability to support you if you run into issues.

Reviewer: I just realized we lack instructions for creating a subchart. That's an entirely valid permanent approach for making additions to the chart (adding custom resources, example [here](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/tree/main/charts/sourcegraph/examples/custom-resources)).

Author: i'll add a place holder for this in the advanced config section

# Sourcegraph Helm Chart

## Requirements

* [Helm 3 CLI](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
* Kubernetes 1.19 or greater

## Quickstart

To use the Helm chart, add Sourcegraph helm repository:
 
```sh
helm repo add sourcegraph https://sourcegraph.github.io/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/
```

Install the Sourcegraph chart using default values:

```sh
helm install --version 0.7.0 sourcegraph sourcegraph/sourcegraph
```

## Configuration 

The Sourcegraph chart is highly customizable to support a wide range of environments. Please review the default values from [values.yaml](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/blob/main/charts/sourcegraph/values.yaml) and all [supported options](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/tree/main/charts/sourcegraph#configuration-options). Customizations can be applied using an override file. Using an override file allows customizations to persist through upgrades without needing to manage merge conflicts.

> To customize configuration settings with an override file, create an empty yaml file (e.g. `override.yaml`) and configure overrides.

Author: @caugustus-sourcegraph how do you like

```suggestion
To customize configuration settings with an override file, create an empty yaml file (e.g. `override.yaml`) to get started.
```

To customize configuration settings with an override file, create an empty yaml file (e.g. `override.yaml`) and configure overrides.

> WARNING: __DO NOT__ copy the [default values file](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/blob/main/charts/sourcegraph/values.yaml) as a boilerplate for your override file. You risk having outdated values during upgrades.

Example overrides can be found in the [examples](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/tree/main/charts/sourcegraph/examples) folder. Please take a look at our examples before providing your own configuration and consider using them as boilerplates.

Provide the override file to helm:

```sh
helm upgrade --install --values ./override.yaml --version 0.7.0 sourcegraph sourcegraph/sourcegraph
```

### Using external PostgreSQL databases

> __TODO__

Author: see https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/33018

### Using external Redis instances

> __TODO__

Author: see https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/33019

### Using external Object Storage

> __TODO__

Author: see https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/33020

It is recommended to enable TLS and configure certificate properly on your load balancer. You may consider using an [Azure-managed certificate](https://azure.github.io/application-gateway-kubernetes-ingress/features/appgw-ssl-certificate/) and add the following annotations to Ingress.

```yaml
frontend:
  ingress:
    annotations:
      kubernetes.io/ingress.class: azure/application-gateway
      # Name of the Azure-managed TLS certificate
      appgw.ingress.kubernetes.io/appgw-ssl-certificate: azure-key-vault-managed-ssl-cert
```

#### References

- [Expose an AKS service over HTTP or HTTPS using Application Gateway](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/application-gateway/ingress-controller-expose-service-over-http-https)
- [Supported Azure Application Gateway Ingress Controller annotations](https://azure.github.io/application-gateway-kubernetes-ingress/annotations/)
- [What is Application Gateway Ingress Controller?](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/application-gateway/ingress-controller-overview)

#### Configure Sourcegraph on other Cloud providers or on-prem

#### Prerequisites

You need to have a Kubernetes cluster (>=1.19) with the following components installed:

> - [x] Ingress Controller, e.g. Cloud providers-native solution, [NGINX Ingress Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx)

Author: do we need another walkthrough for nginx ingress controller?

It scares me the last time we update our bundled nginx ingress controller is two years ago...

https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/tree/master/configure/ingress-nginx

#### Steps

Read <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/> to configure the `storageClass.provisioner` and `storageClass.parameters` fields for your cloud provider or consult documentation of the storage solution in your on-prem environment.

```yaml
frontend:
  ingress:
    enabled: true
    annotations:
      kubernetes.io/ingress.class: ingress-class-name # replace with actual ingress class name
      # additional ingress controller supported annotations
      # ...
    # replace with your actual domain
    host: sourcegraph.company.com

storageClass:
  create: true
  provisioner: <REPLACE_ME>
  volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
  reclaimPolicy: Retain
  parameters:
    key1: value1
```

Install the chart

```sh
helm upgrade --install --values ./override.yaml --version 0.7.0 sourcegraph sourcegraph/sourcegraph
```

Depending how your Ingress Controller work, you may be able to check on status and obtain the public address of your Ingress.

```sh
kubectl describe ingress sourcegraph-frontend
```

You should create a DNS record for the `sourcegraph.company.com` domain that resolves to the Ingress public address.

> It is recommended to enable TLS and configure certificate properly on your Ingress. You are encouraged to utilize managed certificate solution provided by Cloud providers. Alternatively, you may consider configuring [cert-manager with Let's Encrypt](https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/acme/) in your cluster and add the following override to Ingress.

Author: Is it a good idea to mention cert-managed?

I don't want us to become "cert-manager" support, this thing is a pain to deal with...

> WARNING: __DO NOT__ copy the [default values file](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/blob/main/charts/sourcegraph/values.yaml) as a boilerplate for your override file. You risk having outdated values during upgrades.

Example overrides can be found in the [examples](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/tree/main/charts/sourcegraph/examples) folder. Please take a look at our examples before providing your own configuration and consider using them as boilerplates.

Provide the override file to helm:

```sh
helm upgrade --install --values ./override.yaml --version 0.7.0 sourcegraph sourcegraph/sourcegraph
```

### Using external PostgreSQL databases

__TODO__

### Using external Redis instances

__TODO__

### Using external Object Storage

__TODO__

### Cloud providers guides

This section is aimed at providing high-level guidance on configuring Ingress and Storage Class for Sourcegraph deployment on major Cloud providers. In general, you need the following to get started:

- A working Kubernetes cluster 1.19 and higher

> - The cluster should have Block Storage CSI storage drivers installed

Reviewer: I'm not sure this concept will be immediately familiar to most site admins.

What about something like:
- The ability to provision persistent volumes

- The cluster should have Ingress Controller installed. We recommend the use of platform native ingress controller.
- You can have control over your `company.com` domain to create DNS records for Sourcegraph, e.g. `sourcegraph.company.com`

#### Configure Sourcegraph on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)

#### Prerequisites

> You need to have a __public__ VPC-native GKE cluster (>=1.19) with the following addons enabled:

Reviewer: This feels dangerous, again. It's not required in general to have a public GKE cluster, only for the instructions we're giving right here.

It's ok that we're giving specific instructions on how to make it work, but right now it seems like this is _the only way_ to run Sourcegraph and that's not true. If we're going to make opinionated suggestions, they need to be marked as suggestions and call out what the customer has the freedom to change (e.g. - You must have a storage class, and we recommend ssd's. You must have some kind of ingress, and here's one way to do it, if you want to configure your own use port x and healthcheck url y).

Author: > This feels dangerous, again. It's not required in general to have a public GKE cluster, only for the instructions we're giving right here.

My intention is, I don't want customers to deploy stuff on a private cluster and wondering,
- why images are not getting pulled?
- why I can't get my repo connected (you need NAT gateway)

But yeah, I do agree we should be more careful when making recommendations. Let's keep it vague and just say you need a GKE cluster (1.19 or above)

> WARNING: __DO NOT__ copy the [default values file](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/blob/main/charts/sourcegraph/values.yaml) as a boilerplate for your override file. You risk having outdated values during upgrades.

Example overrides can be found in the [examples](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/tree/main/charts/sourcegraph/examples) folder. Please take a look at our examples before providing your own configuration and consider using them as boilerplates.

Provide the override file to helm:

```sh
helm upgrade --install --values ./override.yaml --version 0.7.0 sourcegraph sourcegraph/sourcegraph
```

### Using external PostgreSQL databases

__TODO__

### Using external Redis instances

__TODO__

### Using external Object Storage

__TODO__

### Cloud providers guides

This section is aimed at providing high-level guidance on deploying Sourcegraph via Helm on major Cloud providers. In general, you need the following to get started:

- A working Kubernetes cluster 1.19 and higher
- The ability to provision persistent volumes, e.g. Block Storage [CSI storage driver](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/drivers.html) is installed.

> - The cluster should have Ingress Controller installed, e.g. platform native ingress controller, [NGINX Ingress Controller].

Author: @caugustus-sourcegraph I rephrase the sentence to include platform-native as an option

# Sourcegraph Helm Chart

## Requirements

* [Helm 3 CLI](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
* Kubernetes 1.19 or greater

## Quickstart

> To use the Helm chart, add Sourcegraph helm repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Helm chart, add the Sourcegraph helm repository:
```

__TODO__

### Using external Redis instances

__TODO__

### Using external Object Storage

__TODO__

### Cloud providers guides

This section is aimed at providing high-level guidance on deploying Sourcegraph via Helm on major Cloud providers. In general, you need the following to get started:

- A working Kubernetes cluster 1.19 and higher
- The ability to provision persistent volumes, e.g. Block Storage [CSI storage driver](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/drivers.html) is installed.
- The cluster should have Ingress Controller installed, e.g. platform native ingress controller, [NGINX Ingress Controller].
- You can have control over your `company.com` domain to create DNS records for Sourcegraph, e.g. `sourcegraph.company.com`

#### Configure Sourcegraph on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)

#### Prerequisites

You need to have a GKE cluster (>=1.19) with the following addons enabled:

> Alternatively, you may consider using your custom Ingress Controller and disable `HTTP Load Balancing` add-on, [learn more](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/custom-ingress-controller).

- [x] HTTP Load Balancing
- [x] Compute Engine persistent disk CSI Driver

> You account should have sufficient access equivalent to the `cluster-admin` ClusterRole.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your account should have sufficient access equivalent to the `cluster-admin` ClusterRole.
```
(repeated in a few other sections)

#### Steps

> [Container-native load balancing] is only available on VPC-native cluster. For legacy clusters, [learn more](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/load-balance-ingress).

> Create an override file with the following value. We configure Ingress to use [Container-native load balancing] to expose Sourcegraph publically and Storage Class to use [Compute Engine persistent disk].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an override file with the following values. This will configure Ingress to use [Container-native load balancing] to expose Sourcegraph publicly on a domain of your choosing and Storage Class to use [Compute Engine persistent disk].
```
(similar pattern in other sections)

[override.yaml](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/tree/main/charts/sourcegraph/examples/gcp/override.yaml)
```yaml
frontend:
  serviceType: ClusterIP
  ingress:
    enabled: true
    annotations:
      kubernetes.io/ingress.class: null
    ingressClassName: gce
    host: sourcegraph.company.com # Replace with your actual domain
  serviceAnnotations:
    cloud.google.com/neg: '{"ingress": true}'
    # reference the `BackendConfig` CR we will be configuring at a later step
    beta.cloud.google.com/backend-config: '{"default": "sourcegraph-frontend"}'

storageClass:
  create: true
  type: pd-ssd # This configures SSDs (recommended).
  provisioner: pd.csi.storage.gke.io
  volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
  reclaimPolicy: Retain
```

Install the chart

```sh
helm upgrade --install --values ./override.yaml --version 0.7.0 sourcegraph sourcegraph/sourcegraph
```

> You need to deploy the [BackendConfig] CRD to properly expose Sourcegraph publically. The [BackendConfig] CR should be deployed in the same namespace where Sourcegraph chart is installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to deploy the [BackendConfig] CRD to properly expose Sourcegraph publicly. The [BackendConfig] CR should be deployed in the same namespace where the Sourcegraph chart is installed.
```

[sourcegraph-frontend.BackendConfig.yaml](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm/blob/michael/improve-gcp-example/charts/sourcegraph/examples/gcp/sourcegraph-frontend.BackendConfig.yaml)
```yaml
apiVersion: cloud.google.com/v1
kind: BackendConfig
metadata:
  name: sourcegraph-frontend
spec:
  healthCheck:
    checkIntervalSec: 5
    timeoutSec: 5
    requestPath: /ready
    port: 6060 # we use a custom port to perform healthcheck
```

```sh
kubectl apply -f sourcegraph-frontend.BackendConfig.yaml
```

> It will take around 10 mintues for the load balancer to be fully ready, you may check on the status and obtain the load balancer IP:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will take around 10 minutes for the load balancer to be fully ready, you may check on the status and obtain the load balancer IP:
```
